{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15120\viewh11980\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 (Har ikke Open Office installert, s\'e5 kj\'f8rer p\'e5 med RTF. B\'f8r vel bytte etterhvert).
\fs48 \
Propeller Clock Prestudy
\fs36 \
\
\
\
Introduction\

\fs24 \
A propeller clock is a nice gadget that displays a clock using a rotating row of LEDs. \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYNgomrDePo"}}{\fldrslt http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYNgomrDePo}}
\fs36 \
\
\
Functional requirements\
 
\fs24 - Should be able to stand up by itself, or be hung on a wall\
 - Connect to 220V AC outlet\
 - Silent running\
 - Remote controllable through Bluetooth Low Energy (or WiFi?) (controllable by smartphone app)\
 - Several "screens":\
   - Analog clock\
   - Digital clock\
   - Text message\
   - Change "borders"\
   - ++\
- Alarm clock?\
\
\
The LED row must rotate by at least 2000 RPM. \
\
One single row of LEDs? Should the PCB be symmetric, with LEDs on both sides of the rotation? \
 - Symmetric will probably be more stable? And give a stronger light? But requires more components.\
\
How many LEDs? Many MCUs have 32 GPIO pins (including the nRF51822).\

\fs36 \
Processing requirements (software design / MCU requirements)\

\fs24 \
(2000 RPM / 60s) = 33.33 RPs.\
\
33.33 RPs * 360 degrees = 12000 degrees / sec.\
\
1 / 12000 degrees / sec = 83.333 us / degree.\
\
That means, if we are to update the LEDs at every degree of rotation, we have to update them at 83.33 us intervals.\
We might not need to do it this often?\

\fs36 \
\
Hardware\
\

\fs28 Static PCB:
\fs36 \

\fs24 - 220 V AC -> 3.3V DC conversion. Maybe other voltages as well, for power transfer?\
- Transfer of power to the rotating PCB\
  - Static coil and rotating coil. Induce current in rotating coil by switching on and off the static coil with an H-bridge circuit (and MCU / timer666).\
- Control of the rotator (at least should be possible to turn it on/off). Speed regulation? \
\
\

\fs28 Rotating PCB:
\fs24 \
- MCU for controlling the LEDs\
- Bluetooth Low Energy slave module.\
   - Will the power transfer method / rotator make it difficult for RF performance in 2.4 GHz???\
- Voltage regulator
\fs36 \
}